---
title: Application of Big data
author: Kabita Paul
date: '2019-04-20'
slug: application-of-big-data
categories:
  - R
tags:
  - R Markdown
---
The applications of big data are everywhere. People who are fascinated about data and statistics would be happy to know that opportunities are knocking at their door. Study shows that, people who are good with numbers have better chance of getting job in analytical field. According to research, companies would require more and more analytics experts. The power of analytics and its applications are not limited to the domain of business. There are other fields where big data analytics play a major role in improving performance. Let us take an example of political Science. Data collected from social media and click stream helps to analyse the social impact of political ideas that speeded across the globe.

Undoubtedly, big data analytics helps business to grow exponentially. However, the power of analytics and its applications are not limited to the domain of business. There are other fields where big data analytics play a major role in improving performance. Let us take an example of political Science. As per researchers, data collected from social media and click stream helps to analyse the social impact of political ideas that speeded across the globe with help of modern technology.
The similar situation applies to the field of Science and Sports. In advertisement of public health, wise decision-making have been possible by using analytical approach. The impact of big data is reaching many other fields like Government, Academics etc. The day is not far when analytics is going to be the first priority for decision making in any field.
Let us understand the concept of big data. It is not big just because it is huge. Big data is big in volume, variety and velocity. Though it is first used in marketing sector to enhance decision making process, this is being applied to everywhere. And healthcare is not an exception. Medical experts are now able to predict that how many patients are coming to visit the hospital in next couple of weeks by analysing data from Google searches for ‘flu symptoms’ etc. Retailers are using data to predict the customers for few particular products by utilizing the weather forecast data and increasing the stock for a particular product as per need of customer.
Data are not only becoming more available, but also it is becoming more understandable by computers. With the advancement of field like machine learning and artificial intelligence, the descriptive and predictive analysis has become possible. However, there are certain limitations to it. Having access to big data doesn’t assure better decision making process. The click stream media data, videos from social media are not good fit for conventional relational database. Efficient data management is the key here to utilise the power of data. To leverage the power of big data analytics, we need to customize and improve the tools and techniques of managing and processing of data.
Public transportation can be greatly improved by using Big data. The commuting information of people every day can be stored by using GPS in their smartphone. By looking at commuters’ data, more buses and shuttles can be introduced for different routes. The road traffic conditions during peak hours can be improved if more people use public transport. I personally think, most people use own vehicle to office and try to avoid public commute as those take a longer route and takes more time. If more public vehicles are introduced for different routes which can be very useful for people who commute every day to work or school.


